fix: docs + changelog for vs code desktop restart (#3860)
gitpod-io/website: src/content/changelog/2023-07-14-vs-code-desktop-restart.md

---

> title: ♻️ Restart Workspaces Directly from VS Code Desktop

Reviewer: **thought**: Minor, but I wonder if overusing emojis creates a feeling to users we want to deviate from. 💭

customSlug: restart-workspaces-vscode-desktop
excerpt: With Gitpod you can use OIDC to connect Gitpod workspaces to cloud providers or third parties such as AWS, Azure, GCP, or secret management services like Vault.
date: 2023-07-14
image: 2023-07-12-secretless-authorization.webp
ogImage: 2023-07-12-secretless-authorization.webp

> alt: A light orange image with a padlock. The header image for the changelog announcement for secretless Gitpod workspaces announcement post.

Author: Need to update image and summary (copy/paste)

---

> You can now restart Gitpod workspaces directly in VS Code Desktop. The automatically installed Gitpod extension in VS Code Desktop now shows all active and inactive workspaces on your left menu bar so you can easily get back to your work in Gitpod without opening a new browser tab.

Reviewer: **suggestion**: WDYT of replacing the _sidebar_ term with the term VS Code is using to describe this area, see [relevant docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface).

```suggestion
You can now restart Gitpod workspaces directly in VS Code Desktop. The automatically installed Gitpod extension in VS Code Desktop now shows all active and inactive workspaces in the activity bar so you can easily get back to your work in Gitpod without opening a new browser tab.
```

> You can now restart Gitpod workspaces directly in VS Code Desktop. The automatically installed Gitpod extension in VS Code Desktop now shows all active and inactive workspaces on your left menu bar so you can easily get back to your work in Gitpod without opening a new browser tab.

Reviewer: **suggestion**: Moved this below as it's repeating what the title copy. WDYT?

```suggestion
The automatically installed Gitpod extension in VS Code Desktop now shows all active and inactive workspaces on your left menu bar so you can easily get back to your work in Gitpod without opening a new browser tab.
```

> To try it out, simply open a new workspace in VS Code (or simply open [gitpod.new](https://gitpod.new/)), ensuring that your Gitpod extension is updated to the latest version. You should now see the Gitpod logo in the left panel, and a list of your workspaces. From this view you can:

Reviewer: **suggestion**: WDYT of replacing the _sidebar_ term with the term VS Code is using to describe this area, see [relevant docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface).

```suggestion
To try it out, simply open a new workspace in VS Code (or simply open [gitpod.new](https://gitpod.new/)), ensuring that your Gitpod extension is updated to the latest version. You should now see the Gitpod logo in the activity bar, and a list of your workspaces. From this view you can:
```

Author: Ah, interesting, I was using "sidebar" because of: https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/sidebars

Author: Seems to refer to it as "sidebar" when you right click also 🤔 

"Move primary sidebar left"

<img width="306" alt="image" src="https://github.com/gitpod-io/website/assets/5528307/7491410f-efb8-494a-b08e-866589486258">

I'm not strongly opinionated here, and would like to go with whatever is the best language, but sharing context on how I came to that language/term.

Reviewer: Yeah, I always found the bar names confusing or overlapping. In this case, _activity bar_ is the right one, as the _primary sidebar_ does not include it. However, still sounds ok to use whatever terms we'd like. Your call. 🏓

Reviewer: From the screenshot above, it's clear they want to separate the primary sidebar and activity bar below which seems to be attached to the primary sidebar. 💡

> To try it out, simply open a new workspace in VS Code (or simply open [gitpod.new](https://gitpod.new/)), ensuring that your Gitpod extension is updated to the latest version. You should now see the Gitpod logo in the left panel, and a list of your workspaces. From this view you can:

Reviewer: **question**: How can users ensure Gitpod extension is updated to the latest version? Don't we automatically inject the latest version? 💭

> To try it out, simply open a new workspace in VS Code (or simply open [gitpod.new](https://gitpod.new/)), ensuring that your Gitpod extension is updated to the latest version. You should now see the Gitpod logo in the left panel, and a list of your workspaces. From this view you can:
> 
> 1. Connect to a workspace (in the current window)
> 2. Connect to a workspace (in a new window)
> 3. Disconnect from the workspace
> 4. Open the workspace in the browser
> 5. View the workspace context URL
> 

Reviewer: **thought**: Scanning through the changelog initially felt like these were steps one would have to follow to use this feature. WDYT of moving the following from the first sentecne which is already repeated in the title?

```suggestion
To try it out, simply open a new workspace in VS Code (or simply open [gitpod.new](https://gitpod.new/)), ensuring that your Gitpod extension is updated to the latest version. You should now see the Gitpod logo in the left panel, and a list of your workspaces. From this view you can **restart Gitpod workspaces directly in VS Code Desktop**.
```

In addition, we have also updated how VS Code Desktop connects to Gitpod, which no longer requires you to add an SSH key explicitly, or manually copy and paste an access token.

> See [Restarting in VS Code Desktop](/docs/references/ides-and-editors/vscode#restarting-in-vs-code-desktop) and [Connecting to VS Code Desktop](/docs/references/ides-and-editors/vscode#connecting-to-vs-code-desktop) for more.

Reviewer: **praise**: Thanks for adding links to the docs.
